Android Question Bank            — Preeti

1. OOPS Concept - Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation
2. Difference between Abstract class and Interface.
3. SOLID Principles
4. What synchronous key word in java?
5. Explain Android architecture components
6. Activity and Fragment lifecycle and with some example scenarios
7. Activity lifecycle as user moves from one activity to another and when pressing back or home button.
8. Types of Intents (Sticky, Pending etc...)
9. Activity Launch Modes
10. Difference between Serializable and Parcelable
11. What are content providers and benefits
12. Threads vs Coroutines
13. Types of Coroutines
14. MVVM vs MVP vs MVC
15. How Controller works in MVVM
16. Benefits of MVVM
17. Async task drawback and how MVVM can help here
18. Explain MVVM architecture for Login feature, what are the classes you will create
19. What is LiveData and its Benefits
20. What is MutableLiveData? Difference between LiveData and MutableLiveData
21. Why LiveData is required with MVVM
22. How to share data b/w two Fragments that are visible on an activity at same time? (Using MVVM and Interface)
23. What are memory leaks
24. How to find out memory leaks, any tools available for it and How to use the tool
25. What are Services
26. Types of Services (Intent Service, Background and Foreground)
27. What is a JobService
28. What are work managers and Types
29. What is Serializable?
30. What is Parcelable?
31. Why Kotlin? What are the benefits?
32. Difference between var & val
33. What is companion in kotlin?
34. Singleton in Kotlin?
35. High order functions.
36. Flows.
37. Kotlin Scopes
38. Difference between the Kotlin Scope functions. (diff b/t apply and also etc...)
39. Kotlin Extension functions
40. Redux Framework
41. What is Dependency Injection
42. Benefits of Dependency Injection
43. Which Dependency Injection you have worked (Dagger or HILT or any), explain its implementation
44. What are the different ways to store app data or user data
45. Shared preferences - Difference between apply) and commit()
46. Have you written any Unit Testing?
47. What are the different types in Unit testing?
48. Have you used any test tools in your project?
49. Whurale he euriy measures you take care When releasing the app? (Proguard, Keystore,
50. What are Product flavours and benefits of it?
51. What Network Library you use? (Retrofit)
52. Any Image processing library you have used? (Glide, Fresco and Picasso)
53. Difference between these image libraries?
54. Have you used Paging Jetpack and how it works?
55. Have you used Compose Jetpack and how it works?
56. What are Data Structures?
57. How to traverse LinkedList in best optimized way?
58. What is the Big O Time complexity of it?

 Also brush up with below question too

Encapsulation vs abstraction - binding the variable and methods is encapsulation
Synchronized
Life cycle activity
Fragment lifecycle
viewmodel provider - life cycle owner
Scop functions - context object type (this /It).
High order function
Extensions
What is MVVM.
What are testing frame work used?
What happens when activity orientation changes. 
Activity life cycle when orientation change. 
Jetpack compose vs traditional xml.
How state management works in compose. 
Hot Flow vs Cold flow. Example for them. 
Kotlin coroutines - three Api calls execute them in parallel.
If exception - supervisor operator, coroutine scope.
What are dispatcher? 
Live Data set and post value. - Done What is inline function and what are limitations. 
What is sealed class.
What is companion object. 
When we use Lazy.
What type of android exceptions u have faced. 
What happens when we use set value of live data used in background thread. 
When vm gets cleared from memory. 
And how does it survives orientation change. 
Which life cycle of activity triggers the viewmodel clear from memory - https://medium.com/codex/how-do-view-models-know-how-to-survive-configuration-changes-66aef641f59c
How can destroy activity - Finish)
Does thread attached with life cycle or work independently.
Memory leak -
When we should application context.
Example for above.
Can we start a dialog with application context.
Shared preference - file type stored. - apply and commit diff
How to share shared pref - content provider.
When I want to directly sent shared pref. 
What is the use of Find view by id, same ids how it works internally.
Difference between oncreate and onstart method.
Is it fine to use findviewby id in start.
What is thread safe singleton means.
What happens when two threads trying to access same method.
Which thread shared pref use to store data.
How we store large data and on which thread.
What is the difference between static and dynamic list.
In static data how can we insert data more than given size.
Whats the time complexity to find the data in list.
Whats the difference between list and set. What happens if duplicate is tried to add
Can I assign null value to late init variable
Retrofit - how does internally do the network call?
What happen if we don't provide converter in retrofit. -
What kind of interceptor retrofit supports. 
Whats difference between network and application interceptor
Which one calls first when we do network call.
When application and network interceptors are called?
Why we use DI? 
Describe the repository pattern.
How network data chache in db, how u do it using repository pattern 
Where this repository fits in clean architecture. 
How it interact with other layer.
How to decide whether to use suspend function or flow in methods?
How u handle exceptions in coroutines? 
How u handle exceptions in flows? 
How different is life cycle diff from activity and fragment
One activity and two fragments, and wanna share view model how u do it.
Why we use intent to pass the data?
What happen if we want to pass complex object which is not parcelable or serialization?
Can we share one view model in two activity?
In shared view model which life cycle it will use?
What is broadcast receiver in android . Types of broadcast receiver in android

Scenario based Question: 

What to use or achieve in case of below scenario,
Suppose we have API calls . We don't want to hit API frequently. We want to hit API only if there is any change in server side. Then how we will achieve this thing in android

How to catch data in android when there is no internet scenario

How to know if internet is available in app or not

How location is traced in android app? How to identify it

How distance is calculated in uber app. Distance between source and destination


Android Interview Questions:

   1.   Services  (started services and Binder Services)  , services lifecycle.
      Intent service, jobIntent services, Work Manager (part of jet pack compose)

2. a) Activity and fragment life cycle , view model life cycle: Scenario based like when you click back button, minimise home button, phone
      Call comes in between when app already opened, or notification comes in between.
      b) Android Component: Activity, service, broadcast receiver, content provider
      c) Life cycle Aware Components
      d) Android launch modes?
      e) custom Views in android

  3. Kotlin Scope functions: let , apply, with , run, also
      Null safety : java Vs kotlin
      Difference between Data class and normal class
      Difference between Sealed class and Enum class
      About RecyclerView -> layout Manager , paging 
     
     Memory Leaks: what is memory leaks and types of it, how to identify and avoid memory leaks.?
 
What is lateinit , lazy , Elvis operator in kotlin.?
What is companion object?
What is Open keyword?
What is difference between const and val?
What is Livedata and types of live data and differences?
What is Extension function?
What is Lambda Expression?
What is higher order functions?
What is view model and viewmodelfactory ?
Viewmodel Vs AndroidViewModel
Kotlin Collections:
Array: Mutable but has fixed size
Collections: 
Immutable collections: (read only) listOf, mapOf, setOf
Mutable list: ArrayList, arrayListOf, mutableListOf
Mutable Map : HashMap, hashMapOf, mutableMapOf
Mutable Set: mutableSetOf, hashSetOf

Filter , Map operator , predicates -> all, any, count, find
FlatMap Vs Map

Abstract , interface , inheritance in Kotlin 
      
 How to call Multiple APIs in parallel and in sequence with the help of RxJava Operators.
 (Use flatMap for sequential  and use Zip operator for parallel(
 
How to call 2 Apis parallely in coroutines 

How branching strategy works in project?

About Synchronous and Asynchronous programming
What is Coroutines? What is suspend function, run blocking function?
What is launch , async, with context, global scope, CoroutineScope
Scopes in Kotlin Coroutines?
Network call using callback, rxjava , using coroutines.
Dispatchers in Coroutines
How to launch and cancel Coroutines?

Compose: remember, modifiers , side effects in compose, stateful , stateless , state hoisting ?

Retrofit: http request and response, http methods, restful web services (json and soap services)
How to use rest api in android app?
What is GSON? 
What is dynamic and static header? 
What is Interceptors?

Database: Room and Sqlite , advantages of room, About database migrations

Navigation components: nav graph , jetpack compose navigation (navhost, navcontoller) 

How to go from one fragment to another and how to pass data using nav graph or traditional method?
Hint: findnavcontoller.navigate using destination id or action id.

Scenario based: If going from frag A to B to C , now on pressing back at C , should open A directly . How to achieve this?
Hint: use popup inclusive true and popup to A.

Databinding Vs ViewBinding (compare with findviewById)

 Dependency injection: Dagger2 and Hilt 
  MVVM and MVP , Clean Code Architecture.
  SOLID principle
   Design Patterns: Singleton , Factory, Builder, Facade, Dependency injection, Adapter Pattern, Repository pattern

About Composite Disposables.
Unit testing - Espresso, junitMockito

Flow: cold flow, hot flow , shared flow, state flow

Proguard  Vs R8
How to secure app ? How to reduce app size?

Git: what is merge Vs rebase, cherry pick

Agile: what is agile, advantages of agile, scrum , kanban , Devops, retrospective meeting, 
Product backlog, sprint backlog, sprint planning meeting, what is CI/CD pipeline? 
CI/CD tools-> azure, Jenkins. 

Process in pipeline-> Code check Out + build creation + run test cases + sonar Qube + merging into upper branch +
Pushing into upper branch + pushing to cloud /app center + push to play store.

How to resolve conflicts in team as  an Android lead?
How to lead an android development team?
What is the difference between a team leader and a team manager?
When do you consider success for you as a leader?
What is the most difficult part of being a leader?
What qualities should a team leader have?
What is your greatest weakness?
What is your greatest strength?
How would your team members and colleagues describe you?
